h3. Deprecations/Changes

* HackBoxen::Paths methods have changed.

* You no longer need to include the line @HACKBOX_DIR = File.basename(__FILE__)@ at the top of the Rakefile.

* @Settings@ as used by the Rakefile is now @WorkingConfig@.

* @working_environment@ is now only available in the JSON flavor and the @env/@ directory has moved to the same level as @fixd/@.

* Output data and Icss need to end up in @fixd/data/@.

* @rake scaffold@ is no longer the command to build a hackbox.

* Config files are no longer read as a directory, and also no longer read from the dataroot as the @config/@ output directory is no longer being created.

* Much old code was refactored or removed.

h3. New Functionality (version 0.1.0)

* Default Hackboxen paths can be accessed by using @path_to(:fixd_dir)@. See HackBoxen::Paths for using/adding others.

* You may now @require 'hackboxen' anywhere and it will recognize if you are in a hackbox directory (or not) and allow you appropriate access to HackBoxen methods.

* Tasks for moving icss and endpoint code have been added. Include @'hb:icss'@ and @'hb:endpoint'@ in the default Rakefile task if you want to use them.

* @filesystem_scheme@ now defaults to the local filesystem if not specified in the @config.yaml@

* A logging helper has been added. Use @include HackBoxen::Logging@ and then @logs_to STDOUT, 'file'@ inside of a class to access an instance variable @@log@ that contains a formatted log4r Logger.

* A binary executable has been added, @hb-scaffold@ that can be run from anywhere and is designed to replace the rake task.

h3. Version 0.1.1

* Make Hackboxen a gem. This will require the separation of the actual hackbox code from the hackboxen library (implemented) and the creation of a coderoot to connect the hackbox library with the other code (implemented).

* When Hackboxen is a gem, its version can be added to the requires hash in a hackbox @config.yaml@ so we can keep track of potentially breaking changes to legacy code.

* The separation (completely) of a @config.yaml@ from an @icss.yaml@. (implemented)

* A hackbox __name__ is now separate from a dataset __protocol__. Namespaces are still shared for organizational purposes, but a protocol directory is no longer created for the output. 

h3. Version 0.1.3

* The tasks @hb:endpoint@ and @hb:icss@ can now move multiple files, instead of just one.

h3. Still Needing

* Full spec coverage for the hackboxen library.

* Implementation of @'hb:mini'@ and @ConfigValidator@. Some of this code is written, but it needs to be fleshed out and decided upon.



